---
title: Reading Group Notes
categories:
- Paper Summaries
feature_image: /images/cover_ims/tettegouche.jpeg
---

[Soft Actor-Critic](#rg-1-soft-actor-critic)

# RG 1: Soft Actor-Critic

DQN Was an unstable baseline.
* Tried to update with a replay buffer (experienc replay) and
* Target network: Copy the Q network every few steps

DDPG further improved offline? learning
* Brought DQN to continuous action spaces

Soft Q-Learning
* From energy perspective
    * maximize reward plus policy entropy to encourage exploration
    * Train an approximate sampling network
    * **Note** In practice, at test time you run the mean policy, you don't even sample. Is this contradictory?
        * You're optimizing a biased objective---does this make sense? We eventually only care about the rewards
    * Entropy provides regularization---smooths out loss in parameter space to remove
* **Moral**: PG gets stuck, but +entropy doesn't.

#### Problem with soft-Q

* Not a 'true' actor-critic
* Complicated algorithm
* Unstable training?

* AQ: The update is basically the same, right? 
    * The tricky part is the same as Q learning---must take max over actions, which is hard in continuous environments
    * In the bellman backup you need max over actions: In ddpg, you do current actor's actions, rather than max over actions
    * In Q-learning, it's complicated just to sample from Q function

# Soft Actor-Critic (SAC)

* Entropy-regularized 'true' AC algo
* A soft version of PI
    * alternates between PE and PI
* Explicitly seperate Q and V networks
* "Clipped Double-Q Technique"
    * Calculate Q both ways, take min

* AQ: Should you actually seperate the V and Q?
    * In one trusted implementation, they just use two Q functions and calculate $Q(s, \pi)$
    * They don't compute the expected value $\mathbb{E}_{\pi} \left[ Q\right]$--- they just report $Q(s,\pi)$.

* No smoothing:
    * Unlike DDPG, entropy makes noise injection unnecessary

#### Problems with SAC

* More computations vs PPO?
    * Fewer steps absolutely, but more computation per step---is time less/greater?
* Is entropy effective on problems with hard exploration?
* Brittle w.r.t. temperature parameter
    * How do you choose the weight between $R$ and entropy?

#### Optimal Temperature 

Choosing $\alpha$ is nontrivial
* Policy improves during training, so entropy should probably change over time

###### Contrained Optimization Formulation

Goal:

$$
\underset{\text{max}}{\pi}
R_{\rho}
\sum_{t=0}^{T} r \text{ s.t. }
R_{\rho}
-\text{log}(\pi) \geq \mathcal{H}
$$

* Can be rewritten as an iterated maximization problem
* Use lagrange multipliers

* AQ: All of this happens over $\pi$, then we do GD on $\theta$ to get to $\pi^{*}$.

* AQ: How do you choose $\mathcal{H}$?
    * Scales with the action dimension.

**Is this just newton?**

* Why do we ignore the right gradient?
    * We're actually doing fixed-point iteration
    * There are states s and $s'$
    * We first do a tabular backup from $s'$ to s.
    * $Q_{\theta}(s,a) \leftarrow r - \gamma (\text{log} \pi + Q)$
    Move $s_{i} \rightarrow Q_{i}^{D}$. This constitutes a dataset, then use a function approximator to project $s$ to targets

